Let's open our Bibles and read the text directly from the Bible because there's more to it.
Genesis 24 and verse 67. And as we read this, what we're looking for is a clue into Isaac's
personality. Let's see what we can find out about Isaac from verse 67. It says, after that,
Isaac brought her into the tent of Sarah, his mother. Thus he took Rebecca as his wife,
and he fell in love with her, and Isaac found comfort after the loss of his mother.
So what clue do we have into Isaac's personality? He's obviously a man who has feelings.
This is a man of sentiment. Now how long had Sarah been dead when Isaac got married?
Do the math. Sarah was 90 when Isaac was born. She was 127 when she died, so how old was Isaac when
Sarah died? 37. Now he's 40. Three years have passed, and his sorrow is so great that the
Bible makes special mention of the fact that he found comfort over the death of his mother.
So Sarah's death obviously hit Isaac hard. And then it says that he fell in love with his wife.
Now how would the writer of Genesis know all this? Obviously Isaac shared his feelings,
unlike some men. Now from what we know of Rebecca, we can easily understand why Isaac would fall
in love with her. Brother Verges referred briefly to the situation that brought them together.
Remember the oldest servant of Abraham? They think it was Ellie Yeezer, and for simplicity we'll
call him Ellie Yeezer. Abraham asks Ellie Yeezer to go to the city of Nehor to pick out a wife
for Isaac. Now Ellie Yeezer doesn't lean on his own discernment, his own judgment.
He prays to Jehovah and he asks Jehovah for help. And he says now the woman who offers not only
to give me a drink, but who is willing to water my ten camels, let her be the one whom you have chosen
for Isaac. And so he makes the trip to the city of Nehor. Enter Rebecca. She has a water jar on her
shoulder. And she not only offers to give Ellie Yeezer a drink, but she also offers to water his
ten camels. Now think about what's involved. Let's turn to Genesis 24 and read verses 19 and 20.
Genesis 24, 19 and 20. When she finished giving him a drink, she said,
I will also draw water for your camels until they are done drinking. So she quickly emptied her jar
into the drinking trough and ran again and again to the well to draw water. And she kept
drawing water for all his camels. Easy to read. Not so easy to do. Now researchers tell us
that a camel can drink 25 gallons of water. Now let's be careful with our figures here.
Does that mean that Rebecca drew 25 times 10 or 250 gallons for those camels?
Not necessarily. A camel has good mileage. You can get 40 or 50 miles of the gallon from a camel.
And so it's possible that the camels made that 500 mile journey on five or six gallons of water.
But even if that was so, 50 or 60 gallons is still a lot of water. Now Ellie Yeezer had men with
him. And she could have said, well I'll draw water for you and your men can help themselves
to the water after all their servants. I'm not. But she didn't. So what do we learn about her?
She was a hard worker. Now you and I would have been ready for a nap after drawing all that water.
But now she's a hospitable woman. She offers straw for the camels and a place for the men
to spend the night. So what do we learn about her? We learn that she is a hard worker and she is warm
and hospitable. What do we learn about Isaac? He's a warm man of sentiment. What about the camels?
Well, when we used to look for types and anti-types, we thought that the 10 camels pictured the perfect
word of God. And just as the camels brought Rebecca to Isaac, so the word of God brings the bride to
Christ. A couple of problems with that. First of all, the camel is an unclean animal. And you
wouldn't think that Jehovah would select an unclean animal to picture his perfect word.
And then if the camels picture the perfect word of God, you'd think that it would be the camels
that would bring water to Rebecca and not the other way around. So it seems that the camels
are just camels. Well, the day after Al-Eezer arrives, he asks Rebecca if she's willing to return
to Bir Shiba. Now, as we mentioned, that's a 500 mile journey on a camel. How long would it take?
These are not your speedy roadster camels. There are speedy camels that can do about 100 miles a day,
but these would be the slow, burden-bearing, Arabian camels, and they can do about 25 miles a day.
So you're looking at a 20-day journey on a camel. How would you like to meet your
fiancée for the first time after you'd traveled 20 days on a camel? Well, Rebecca was no pushover.
She was a strong woman. When Esau and Jacob were born, Jehovah had said that the older Esau was
going to serve the younger Jacob. But remember what happened when Isaac thought he was about to die?
He wanted to bless the older Esau and Rebecca took action so that Jacob got the blessing. Now,
whether she was fully aware of it or not, that fit into Jehovah's purpose. So we're thinking of
warm, sentimental, Isaac, and a strong, hard-working, smart, hospitable woman. What a wonderful
combination that made. And it makes us think of how many Rebecca's we have in the organization
today. Some of them are working in construction. Others are working in Bethel. Others in the field.
They're willing to learn new languages and to serve with a need is great. They're hard workers.
They're willing to do whatever is required and even go beyond the call of duty. They're hospitable,
smart, attractive. Our sisters make an amazing contribution to Bethel. What would we do without them?